3 EXERCISES TO END BACK PAIN

IS YOUR BACK BOTHERING YOU? RESEARCH SHOWS THAT MOVING MORE CAN BE THE BEST MEDICINE. HERE ARE 3 WAYS TO SEND YOUR BACK PAIN PACKING.

1. Stretching

The proof: A recent study found that stretching is just as effective as yoga at decreasing back-pain.
Why it works: Stretching of any kind, whether static (you hold the pose) or dynamic (you move through a complete range of motion), can help improve flexibility and decrease back-pain risk and symptoms.
Try this move: Half Lunge (stretches hips, calves)
Stand with feet staggered, left leg in front. Bend your front knee about 90 degrees and lower your back knee a few inches from the floor. Press your right hip forward, feeling a stretch along the front of your hip. Hold for 20 to 30 seconds. Switch sides.

2.Yoga

The proof: Two recently published studies found that people who practiced yoga had less back pain and more mobility than people who did other sports.
Why it works: Yoga combines stretching with strength and balance poses, which helps shore up weak muscles and release tight ones. It’s also a stress reliever; tension can lead to a tight back.
Try this move: Child’s Pose (stretches back; improves relaxation)
Sit on heels, knees hip-distance apart. Exhale and lower torso between thighs. Reach arms forward. Hold for about 30 to 60 seconds.


3. Strength Training

The proof: Physical therapists have long advocated doing traditional resistance training (using body weight only, bands, dumbbells, or machines) to improve strength and regain function, especially for everyday activities.
Why it works: It stabilizes and strengthens your entire body. “Back pain can occur when muscles are not prepared for a certain movement, whether that’s lifting a heavy box or carrying a child,” says A. Lynn Millar, PT, PhD, a professor of physical therapy at Winston-Salem State University.
Try this move:Body Squat (strengthens legs, glutes, core)
Stand with feet hip-distance apart. Bend knees, shifting hips back as if sitting into a chair, and lift arms. Hold for 1 count; return to start. Do 10 to 15 reps.